Software name Jiinue boda by pikipata.
this is a loan management software

technology used
database mysql
API -java-springboot
frontend - react, nextjs and react native
hosting - cloud via digital ocean


How it works

    a.) loan request and disbursement

1. boda boda rider , who wants a loan makes a visit to the workshop with their bike and original logbook.
2(i) if the clients,boda boda stage already exists in the system, loan officers who already have accounts in the system create for them an account,
 take an entry of their asset (motorcycle) and send them to a valuer. (within the workshop).
2 (ii) if the boda boda stage is not yet existing, a stage mapping by our agent is done where the agent visits the stage to confirm it exists and the client is a valid member. the chairman and secretary in the stage has to be consulted

3. the valuer has a checklist form where he uses to value the approximate value of the bike.fills the form and takes
pictures of all the relevant parts of the bike (atleast 6) then forwards all these to the loan officer.

4. upon successfull validation,the client id given a hard copy of the loan agreement they read together with the loan officer and once agreed they both sign ,
and scan a digital copy.
the loan officer continues to insert the loan details and the agrreement to the system.

    private int loanPrincipal;
    private int batteryAmount;
    private int loanTerm;
    private String loanPurpose;
    private String guarantor1Phone;
    private String guarantor2Phone;
    private int clientAsset;
    private MultipartFile loanAgreementForm;

5. upon entry the loan goes to approver 1 (supervisor admin) that checks that the loan is well entered
and all data is well captured and that the client meets the client meets the minimum requirements.

6. after approver 1 approves it then goes to approver 2 (admin and final approver). he/she majorly checks the validity of the amount and the ability of the client to pay.
 if they decline the loan is pushed back to approver 1 for restructure or error correction if they approve the system cron picks this loan in queue and automatically disburse the amount to the users mpesa account.

8. upon disbursement the client gets a message confirmation of the money recieved and how to pay on a daily.

the daily amount is calculated by the system (loan total)/days taken

9. days range between 30 (1 month) and 120 (4 months).

 B) client payments

 1. the client payment and rconciliations are all automated.
 2. the client is given his unique account and our mpesa paybill number.
 3. when they pay to mpesa we get an IPN (Instant payment Notification) from mpesa to our system via daraja platform.
 4. our system adds this payment to their running payments and computes a running balance for them automatically untill the last day where they get their full loan statement and payment details.
 5. the system is also able to detect unpaid accounts and missing transactions.

 c) Admin
 loan manager view -> view all active accounts and their running balances.
 reports -> general analytics, chats reports and growth focasting.
 accounting and HR  -> business and employees general view.
 defaults and non performing accounts

