BEGINER
COMPUTATION
understanding CPUs

MATHEMATICS
Linear algebra,
Calculus,
probability, and information theory

ALGORITHMS
Supervised learning algorithms.
linear regression,
logistic regression,
decision trees
Information theory => is a branch of mathematics and electrical engineering that deals with the quantification, storage,and communication of information.
                      It was pioneered by Claude Shannon in his pioneering 1948 paper "A Mathematical Theory of Communication."

                      Entropy: A measure of the uncertainty or randomness in a random variable or data set. Higher entropy implies higher impurity or uncertainty.

                      Information Gain/Mutual Information: Measures how much "information" a feature provides about the target class, which is used to select optimal splitting features.

                      Kullback-Leibler Divergence: A way to measure the difference between two probability distributions, which can relate to change in entropy after a data split.

                      Data Compression: Finding efficient encodings to represent data, which is analogous to finding succinct decision tree representations.

k-nearest neighbors. (used to classify new data points into existing clusters)

Unsupervised learning algorithms.
k-means clustering (Applied to identify discrete groups of data points)
descending dimension algorithms.

VISUALIZATION
makes for quick and easy storytelling.
Graphs,
Scatter plots,
Box plots

NOTE
The less informed your audience is, the more important it is to
visualize your findings. Conversely, if your audience is knowledgeable about
the topic, additional details and technical terms can be used to supplement
visual elements.

ADVANCE
BIG DATA
Petabytes qualify as big data.
(1,024 terabytes, 1,048,576 gigabytes, or 1,125,899,906,842,624 bytes)
(if each row is roughly 1 kilobyte. a petabyte of storage could potentially hold around 1 trillion (1,000,000,000,000) rows.)

scrubbing: The process of refining your dataset before building your model.

COMPUTATION
understanding GPUS and TPUs

ALGORITHMS
Markov models,
support vector machines
multinomial logistic regression,
Q-learning
ensemble modeling. {Combines algorithms and statistical techniques to create a unified model}
Neural networks  {Automatic calculus for back-propagation/gradient descent.}



